# The End of Laptops

I love laptops. When I was in middle school and high school, I thought they were
the coolest thing, and I thought about ways of getting the money to buy one. That 
all ended when my parents were generous enough to supply me with one for college.

Now I have a personal laptop and a work laptop. I still avoid using a phone when a 
laptop will do. What can I say? I want a physical keyboard, even to send texts.

But let's not kid ourselves. I almost never use a laptop as a "lap-top." It's bad 
for my wrists, and it's bad for my neck. If you are roughly human shaped, it's bad 
for you the same way.

In my home office, I have a setup where the laptop sits on a stand at the very back 
of the desk, next to a second monitor, which let's not kid ourselves, is actually 
the main monitor. I have an ergo keyboard and ergo mouse for the controls, and a 
microphone for talking. No joke, my boss told me it was distracting to listen to my 
laptop's fan during meetings.

So as long as I am using a laptop as a desktop, what's next?

## Mac Mini as work device

When I am due a work machine replacement, I am going to ask for a Mac Mini. Sure, 
it is all laptop internals, but you can get more cores, more memory, and more 
storage for the price. After all, you're not paying for the screen, the hinge, battery, 
and so on. I don't even need all that much more compute, so I can ask for a better 
screen. Developers all want desginers' screens, so the lower price of the desktop 
gives IT the budget space to buy me a 5k screen.

So I am lucky enough to have a hybrid work situation, where (pandemic permitting) 
I go to the office a few days per week, they aren't going to buy me a second work 
desktop for home. No problem. The mini doesn't weigh much, I can just cart it to 
and fro just like a laptop. People have done this.

What is the disadvantage? You have to get a webcam for meetings if you want to do 
video, but that is just a price parameter to adjust. Plus not everyone wants to be 
on video. If you have to present at a meeting where you are away from your desk, 
you need someone else to bring their laptop, or you have to juggle a mini, a 
keyboard and a mouse to the meeting. Ok, so you buy someone lunch and it is an 
excuse to connect. Or the strange setup will be an excuse for a conversation.

## iPad Pro or Surface Pro X as personal device

I am not ready to use a phone as my only personal device. I like having a big 
screen. I don't have a TV, so when I do want to watch a movie, or a Nature episode,
a phone just won't do.

For years, tablets just weren't good enough. The screens were just too small. The
compute was just not enough. But with 13 inch screens, and the ability to run 
Photoshop and Lightroom, a tablet might finally be enough.

I also used to dismiss tablets-as-computers because they had subpar keyboards. I
still think keyboard cases are silly. But as long as I am using a non-connected 
keyboard anyway, why use the accessory keyboards? Why not just use the keyboard 
you really want? If it is bluetooth, all the better. But at worst, it is just a 
USB cable. Ok, at worst it is a rat's nest of USB cables.

What about development work?
